Good evening, everyone, and thank you very much for organizing this event and inviting
me and Lorraine in this beautiful city once again, and also I had the opportunity to visit
again this beautiful insight meditation and be here and discussing that with knowledge
of teaching that I learned, and so I'm so grateful all those opportunities. Thank you
very much, everyone. Thank you for coming. Thank you, everyone, okay? Thank you. Before
I begin to talk, I'm going to join few prayers, which is prayers of all those great masters
of Buddhism. They did this to removing, freeing the suffering, the difficulties of every living
being in a very beautiful nature of the joy and peace and harmony. That is the meaning
of these prayers, and I'm going to join those prayers tonight. So please, please, you all,
we all meditate. Yes, and then while we are meditating, I'm going to join these prayers.
[Singing]
Okay, so tonight I'm going to talk about how to heal the sufferings according to the teaching
of the Buddhist masters and what they practiced. And to do this again, just to talk really
about what is the sufferings generally. The sufferings. Sufferings generally we're thinking
of is something that unwanted feelings that we have to go through. Why it is coming, or
why is it there? According to the teaching, or when we think of this, generally suffering
is very natural. It's nothing alien and nothing bad. It is part of what we are, where we are.
It is like a season, when we have the different seasons, spring, summer, autumn, and winter.
When those different seasons come, what are those? Is something newly arrived, or is something
kind of strange things? What are those generally? We start thinking. It's nothing, any strange
thing. It is part of the systems where we leave this universe or this world. It's exactly
the same way. If we want spring, or we don't want spring. If we want spring, we don't want
spring. Or we have to analyze with the summer, season, autumn, and all those autumns, whatever
the seasons. Even we like to do those things, but what we can do is part of the season,
part of the nature. That's the way we are now. That is the part. Suffering is part
of our systems. Not just only about suffering, we have also happiness. Happiness and suffering,
that goes side by side. Is there something that suffering is invading us, or no happiness
is escaping with it, or drowning away from us? It's a part of the systems. It's all
that. If we don't too much analyze on these systems, systems, kind of take that as more
natural approach, or natural rhythms, then we won't, I don't necessarily we will suffering
too much as we suffer. And what is Buddhism called? It is samsara. Samsara has all these
frustrations. It's not something that time we came in this world, time we lived in this
world, there's always these play games of this something that we want, something that
we don't want. It's all is going on all the time. This is also not just happening casually
and randomly or without any kind of religious by itself. It's not. It has cause. It has
conditions. Cause and conditions are bring up whatever that circumstance according to
cause and conditions. If it's suffering or unpleasant, then that cause and condition
must be played the role similar things what we don't like. Even though cause and conditions
are times, maybe we don't pay attention too much. We're always kind of looking. Our human
mentality or the in the Buddhism teaching always a duality mind is always picking up
the kind of what the duality mind like to be, like to be that. We don't pay attention
of the how it's developing in a bottom down on at the root, root levels. But this all
happen is not just a happen by itself. I said it has cause and conditions. So samsara cause
is samsara is is the result of this on stable situations, changing ups and downs. That is
all samsara. And that's what the Buddha named as difficulty challenges is not just a Buddha
named because is when that began to experience by us, it is difficult. It is a challenge.
And for those reasons in Buddha teachings name suffering, suffering truth. Why the Buddha
named as suffering truth? Because it's truly experienced. Whether that is the illusion
or whether that is just whatever it is, we experience it is uncomfortable. It makes uncomfortable
suffering and we experience that therefore is called suffering truths. So this suffering
truth is not just a happen by itself. It has cause and conditions as I said before, and
that you all know called things are not happening here just by itself. It has cause it has
condition
behind the scene on the scene and far beyond the scene far beyond that we see all that
came together both that result that what we see is a result that cause of suffering that
one thing that we can tell a result is suffering. Definitely it has cause similar with that
something unpleasant, uncomfortable and kind of un peaceful cause and condition because
of that cause and condition both result as as a difficulty in troubles. Then the other
hand if it's happiness and good that also not just happen by itself. It has a cause
it has a condition it has every all same thing and the cause condition must be also something
very pleasing something kind of appealing something nice and comfortable and that because
of that then sis light and formulated and cooperated to each other those cause and condition
right way and both the result as happiness and called happiness and goodness. So therefore
that is what cause of suffering truth what the Buddha said in the teaching this cause
and suffering truth and suffering truth is a part of the samsara. That's what we call
samsara where there is a kind of rotating situation all the time that we cannot rely on anything
is unreliable things always happening one after another. What we like to see is happiness
goodness good things but that is not happening all the time. It's always kind of really changing
and all that going on and on and that is as I said before time we came on this earth or
the time we was we born and time we will live we'll have this change changes always. So
this is a part of the nature part of the systems part of the as as as I used example as any
seasons summer spring winter and autumn it's part of the whole systems even we want to
reject that we cannot cannot reject it's part of that and why we don't suffer with the different
changing seasons because we accept it. We know these things we know that we not become
tempted with this. Therefore what we do one is a according general level different levels
of the Buddha's teaching how we transform or how we heal the sufferings how sufferings
there's a different levels of the teachings what Buddha taught as I kind of like remember
or as used to the practice of these. The first and the most important is to transform this
or to bring the heal the suffering. We all have to be strong we have to be strong we
have to be courageous we have to become a fearless we should not be tempted. As I say
to use the examples the seasons why we don't suffer with the seasons all changing of the
seasons this is just a roughly examples because we accept it we accept it and we are not when
we accept it we're not bothered by too much even though season is changing all time is
changing but suffering is something that we don't accept and that means what in the Buddha's
teaching said we become terminus always we are so sensitive and terminus we won't be
always going to have the fears that we get sufferings we're going to get sufferings we
get more fears more fear and more fears what this fear does it then has timidity timidity
then so sensitive when you become the more sensitive in timidity timidity then suffering
or the situation become so powerful so pressure so tense and then you just can kind of completely
be corrupted so order to to first place to really heal the sufferings we have to be strong
that is the number one the foundation foundation fundamental we have to stone courageous and
we have to be think more fearless in the states we have to be as one's called never mind never
mind attitudes we have to open heart never mind I'm going to go through this I'm going
to take care of this at it cannot crushed me I'm not going to bother every you have
bad attitude or not just you and we have that attitude that is what we called in a generally
in the samsara or in war the warriors challenge in the difficulty comes when they take care
of that something that that very very beautifully and that challenge the difficulty not crushed
our self self that is known as warriors these war friendships the bravery is a hidden call
it over our nature our nature of the mind according Buddhism is beautiful brilliant
enlightened peaceful status is fairness status but remedy and this sensitive issue is bought
by or bought by our duality or every I pink one kind of pink don't this is the ego cleaning
ego self attachment self-centered thoughts always can relate can be very protected thought
of our own self and then as much as we have that thought we become always timid sisters
therefore instead that can open our heart be fearlessness bring up the our nature of
the warrior ships our nature nature of the mind natural mind is beautiful brilliant enlightened
pristine that's what the inner in it all those great masters great teachers from the Buddha
everyone say nature of the mind is pristine beautiful he roving very very brave very natural
mind cannot be drawn by anyone's even the buddhas cannot do anything to the mind the
Buddha is considering in the Buddhism the most powerful things that should kind of overcome
complicate everything overcome everything and Buddha is totally kind of freedom to every
nature kind of rule the natural as it is but even that brother cannot do anything to our
mind we have that distinctly beautiful unique nature each of us own way distinctive that
call it every bring up that call it kind of bring up that reality with the fearlessness
and with the with the courage and our warrior ship is really entrusting in the growing growing
and then we become powerful then suffering and all these difficult things what we think
we not be crushed by we not have to begin too timid timid all the times we can easily
pass through that so that is a number of control very very fundamental have that attitude have
that stone in the Buddhism do you see that if you have that thought you can transcend
that the transcendent or free the suffering heal the suffering into the positives suffering
is not all the time bad suffering is in a way message in a test of our courage our knowledge
our understanding how we handle the skills methods that in other world then also other
side another world another way look to the suffering is to cleanse in the our karmas
cleansing the our negative it is it is we are purifying that so there is many beautiful
aspect of the of the suffering is not suffering is always bad bad when you look and read the
life story over all those great masters for example brother shakti muni's and all the
great masters when you read this life story when you look to that they are a compliment
bought by the beginning of suffering suffering ignited their realizations suffering ignited
their courage and commitment and that warrior ships then they become the great enlightenment
is the buddha's bodhisattva's all that without that buddha without the suffering buddha won't
become the buddha i call the buddhism without the suffering the difficulty troubles bodhisattva's
the one who walks for all the living beings not become the bodhisattva's so bodhi this
suffering is not something bad bad bad have you really turned the suffering for the right
way it is the mostly powerful things there is no history happiness bought enlightenment
at the beginning time happiness ignited the in life to call it there is no the suffering
the difficulty challenges both this beautiful realization one after another to read life
story of such as buddha shakti muni's buddha was totally fully reached youth for apprentices
athletic beauty skill method the knowledge every in luxuries and now everything is that
he has the best in that time but we see the suffering the difficulties of the subjects
subject that has inspired him to become as a buddha as buddha's and then all those great
masters that when you read life stories everyone is really become that great bodhisattva great
in life beings because of the difficulty in the sufferings one after another and then
for example kishanates jesus christ because also extended relative level he experienced
a lot of sufferings through went through them through the difficulty suffering and even
what they call the cross fight cross fight on the cross cross because of that it ignited
the glorified him as the great beings and the save of the all the mankind's it's not
just his relax on the beach and enjoy trying to get the sun tan's and you become the jesus
christ i mean who is they stay and enjoy the result result area all those luxuries area
and then become that there's no history you look you look all those great beings that
what we cherish what we honor everyone went through those challenges and they didn't cross
by that and really that rise up then their warriorships their glories their beauties
their technique they said then not just a day that that affected so many million million
beings throughout the generations this is how they owe the sufferings the difficulty
troubles something unwanted things happened that brought up that so therefore so many
times in the teaching you say suffering is not the suffering but suffering is the great
teacher great who give the lessons and bring up our worship our realization so that we
can defeat it we can transcend it we can change our directions not just ours but also can
help to the other being same way in that beautiful status so that is how this generally about
the sufferings or these situations now i talk a little bit that generally in buddha's teaching
what how this is and now in the tutorial about the generally now again to convey more how
we deal with the sufferings how we take care of the sufferings there's many different teachings
the techniques i mentioned in the buddha teachings and this is though again those are what buddha
said in the teaching said but through the power of the power of the meat meat or substances
healing the suffering through the power of the substances healing the sufferings through
the mantras healing the sufferings through the meditation and healing the sufferings
through the attitudes or other things so those are the different way again to deal more closely
with the deal with that watershed with that that courage and confidence fearlessness and
accepting the situation not dealing this so with that and then heal the uh the sufferings
and first these substances secondly is like mantras cigarette songs and the third is concentration
or the meditation and the fourth is like attitudes what we have two attitudes and this is now
we talk about the substances substances generally now when we're thinking about the sufferings
suffering is what is really actually one now looking to directly close to the sufferings
is suffering is object or is suffering the subject if we're thinking of the object the
subject levels what are these sufferings suffering is not object is something is subject and
subject when we start thinking a code of buddhism what are called five aggregates form aggregates
feeling aggregates conception aggregates perception aggregates and conscious aggregates so there
is five aggregates among these five aggregates what are these suffering is suffering is of
course is a mind but it's more related with the feeling it is a feeling aggregates so
that is what the feeling what is this feeling is feeling is where feeling is how it started
feelings it is it started with the mind started it reflecting to the physical it reflecting
to the mentally so it reflected at least two major places started fundamentally started
with mind and then is reflecting to the physical to the mentors so now that feelings and how
many feelings according to the teaching there is the many feelings thing is but can summarize
all the feelings into three feelings those are the the the wanted feelings or please
and feelings unpolised and feelings and the neutral feelings so now suffering is about
is unpleasant feelings something that we don't like to accept something that I don't feel
comfortable comfortable that is what the suffering is so it is the feeling that on on on unpleasant
feelings and when that how this reflecting that is a two major way to meditate physical
and mentors physical way when this suffering comes then physical troubles all the physical
troubles is can be summarized into the physical feelings mental feeling is something that
not necessarily immediately started with it physically but it's mentally started mentally
mentally is also kind of like mind is something that don't want accepted it's all thought
mental suffering started with thought I mean it's all a cure of Buddhism if you read the
books of the Buddhism actually is all everything started with the mind particularly for example
mental suffering or mental suffering is started the mind and how again don't like to even
is a thought we don't like to accept that thought something that we highlighted we have
trillions of thought goes through our our mental state or our brain states every day
but among that trillion thought we highlight one and we don't like to see that we don't
like to see that as you highlight we don't like to say mind is playing the double game
and again it become more tense I don't like that and then you made this kind of a lateral
not a concept of thought alone that trying to reject that but thoughts are coming back
thoughts are coming back you trying to reject that and thoughts are coming bigger and bigger
so now almost the mind is playing two games subject and object event within within the
mental states that is how the beginning of the mental problem or sufferings when mental
problem sufferings comes that there is so many again psychological troubles mental problems
emotional troubles I mean so for all that arises one after another all this way is happening
that all is all is happening on the brain or the mental states all is happening when
sense of mind is become so powerful it ruled the whole our environment mind is the ruler
of the our all you are our environment sense is ruling then it is sizzling in the brain
or the mental status it becomes stronger and strong then of course we need to become stronger
strong and our wind according to Buddhism our wind is become more stronger the running
wind on the physical is become more strong more rapidly rapidly moving remind wind is
of running mind is joining and is going to circulate it through the old nervous systems
brains cha and then according to Adyana or the esoteric Buddhism and the jakras and channels
and all it's just still become then it created very arm please in the environment in the
mental states mental states and that is known as then the mental sickness or mental feelings
mental problems and that is as I said emotions related psychologically or any that all those
troubles came on after that even though is mentally related that truly we go through
that it's not something that is it's a male mind it is just it goes away because our mind
is supported to that our conceptions and support to what we started is continually maintaining
and then it becomes the troubles so now how to heal this heal this this all this troubles
if we divide again I went back to this what we discussed is forced to the this is feeling
feeling can be divided into two in this time we're talking more about the feeling of the
suffering or the unpleasant and the suffering has can be divided into two physically and
mentally these two now how to heal to heal is as in the buddha sicham or those great
master always said teaching the substances and then as well as the mantra meditation
and then substance mantra meditation meditation and then overall kind of attitude or how we
will take care of this this so those are the four things so now when we are the trouble
of this if we're looking through the point of the substance levels what means substance
levels substance a god of buddhism is for example all the medicines all the medicines arbor
medicines
as well as like modern science developed the medicines what are your those relatively substance
and our kind of like we're eating good food or the we have the living standard all those
things are known as a substances so whatever for example to heal these things difficulties
then go to kind of experts such as the doctors doctors they give their stockings whatever
they say whatever that those experience a doctor say according whatever you like to
abroad abroad and that will heal it will help help so that is really known as then the helping
through the substances they have different medicines a different food and then medicine
to be urban medicine or ancient ancient those technology the ancient those by the western
mind develop the author or the experience develop the medicines and use those arbor medicines
and all those anything that really with the substances if you take those take care accordingly
that that and then target with that when they give also the instructions that you're where
you're living where you're where your activity where your behaviors or our behaviors right
you understand behaviors so all the conduct all these things is known as the substances
so use those techniques and they apply that definitely it will help that so this is one
of the techniques of the through the substances and then throw them mantras mandra is a secret
song the secret words to reward and there's many mantras again and throw the mantras then
you can also heal that not just only the mantra according Buddhism mantra is goes with meditation
not just you're reciting chanting something but also with meditation you're concentrating
with that so as you meditate reciting those secret words what it does it deep down is
really like clearing and touching to the our mental status mantra and meditation both deals
with the with the mind mind and that's what called the mantra is Sanskrit word if we translated
that into English mantra means protector of the mind one protractor or civil sound there
well protecting our emotion mind or duality mind that is what the matter is and so reciting
the mantra with the concentration with the meditations every reciting the mantra that
when you reside in the mantra immediately it really affects us to the our our system
of the all the chakras and channels it is when you reside in the mantra is not just only
wobbling on the on the here but it's all going that sound systems are going all the way to
the our physical systems so in the way mantra reciting mantra is like sound therapies therapies
you're really going through everywhere and cleansing and a transcendent thing and then
healing the all those scarves of the emotions or the feelings that really healing completely
that and that is known as reciting the mantra practicing through that will heal heal and
then through the meditations meditate meditation meditation is a code of Buddhism is very profound
because these are all generally this started with the this uncomfortable feelings start
with the mind mind so that it goes to the root meditation goes to the root and when
you meditate that it really cleans away cleanse with that and then also during the meditation
generally there is also quite two three different ways the first of all that way when you started
this meditating pause also in the Buddha teaching said this suffering is not just happening
by itself as we said before it has cause and conditions this cause and conditions is maybe
something really connected with us that ourself and a Buddhism you all know basically we're
not first time in this human world this is not our first time we are here we've been
here only samsara so many times lifetimes so many lifetimes that time we also did a similar
activities similar activities and that activity is known as that karmas karmas are not opposed
nor is it not bad there is a good karma bad karma and a neutral karmas but this suffering
is related with something a code of Buddhism is something that the action that which is
not pleasing things at that time and because of that that shadow what we started it that
shadow is a effect as now now so therefore is not just a happening by itself it is something
that maybe has to do with our own action so now I'm going to purify that with that attitude
with that understanding with that understanding we do the meditation meditation and then who
did that karma karma is no other than our mind fundamentally is our mind and who is
doing our meditation it's our mind so now mind is using the purifying what the mind
did before is like homophobic systems using the antidote the same thing to remove that
obstacles or that that uncomfortable things so using the mind power and then cleansing
healing the root of those suffering any difficulties so if you you must know those meditation and
use meditate meditate meditating such as the chamadhi meditations inside meditations both
are important chamadhi is very good because it was brained on our mind more settling more
gently more stable status inside the meditation will bring the whole whole inner natures it
can't open in the window it brings the skylight to our mind mental state so we are totally
completely vast and infinite and freedom states relax on that nature states in that nature
when it relaxes in that nature state even there is no even the names of suffering the
difficulties of existing at all is all healed all blended in all transcendent liberated
within that nature status status that is known as the basically healing the by the meditation
of the sufferings this and then this so that's a soul it aboard the substances aboard the
mantras aboard the meditations that and then meditation also sometimes there's like such
as zuktin meditations sometimes said that time you're not looking searching any of those
the kind of thinking and like any anything that but immediately when we send this difficulty
sufferings immediately that time looking to direct to your own mind mind without kind
of going analyzing status immediately look into your own mind who is experiencing suffering
who is saying that it is suffering when you ask that question and look to your mind there's
nothing really answers at all there's nothing you find and then you reach that is the kohri
doki teaching or the buddha teaching you teach the highest state of nature there's not no
more answers at all you reach to the speechless states relax on that nature states is all mental
publications mental games you relax in that they're freed out of that all and relax on
that nature states it is then known as a healing healing the sufferings suffering through the
meditations levels then the fourth one is the attitudes attitude is again is when the suffering
the difficulty comes comes what we think you know most of the time we we kind of projected
suffering
the difficulty comes somewhere outside to us that's what we really projecting that most of the time
and when this happening happening or that happened before and there's a effort now
what happened to attitude we have to keep the attitude of the positives positives such as as
that of this happening i'm going to not going to pay attention with this i'm going not going to
for attention that with that at the same time i'm going to excuse that i'm going to forgive that
forgive that i'm going to not bother with that now i'm going to let it go that happened happening
i'm let i'm going letting go this this case i'll forgive this or i excuse that have you have that
mental attitude that is positives we're cleansing and purifying that that at the same time is
healing
to us you're really giving that this is like our one of the very special attitude positive attitude
that we can forgive we can execute and we accept that that means you accept courageously
fearlessly you accept that and now you're not going to thinking of that all the time just let
it go you forgive it you accept and when you do this what is called in buddhist it's bodhisattvas
that is bodhisattva you're not chasing that shadow shadow and let it go you're going to stay
in the now and you're going to look into the future future not going to bother by what but
what happened in the past or what happening now i'm going to look future future i forgive i
excuse and i'm let i'm letting go this have you have this thought that is one of the very
beautiful attitude that we really healing the suffering and the difficulties also then another
world also difficulty troubles when it comes according again another attitude that was the
famous master known as the shanti devil he said in the teaching said this this one very famous he
said when suffering the difficulties happening to us again as he said before is not happening by
itself it has cause and condition that so it's something because maybe we have connected that
so now i'm cleansing i'm purified i'm cleansing i'm purified and i'm happy i'm going to i'm better
i have to deal these things sooner or later i'm happy to deal now i'm cleansing and i'm
purified i'm going to accept it is the same time when you what's called when we're cleansing that
when we're cleaning the chimney chimney chimney or when we're clean cleansing the
septic systems when you clean the septic systems sure you we won't feel happy that smell
but we were happy we're cleansing we're cleaning it need to be cleaned one day also now the septic
system or the chimney we it have to be cleaned one day so i'm dealing now better to better uh not
not to let it's better now than to let let i'm cleansing and therefore i'm cleansing i'm
glorifying well i have the capabilities and with that attitude and really let it go let it go it's
true according to buddha's teaching this is not just happening by itself it's not just coincidental
suffering difficult it has many factors from our side from other side factors but if we let it go
except it won't create more more shadow more difficult things things so therefore then we
cleaned we cleared with that so and that is the what reason then this this attitude all is very
special way to heal suffering any difficulties difficulties and so that is generally kind of how
healed very kind of like brief explanation or talk about how to heal the the sufferings and then
many times as i said suffering as i said quite a few times already that suffering is not really
always bad bad and suffering if you look to the other side of the suffering it brought so many
good results it gives us a stone makes ourselves a stone it makes ourselves more more kind of
thoughtful to the others it makes ourselves more humble and more humid more respectful it makes
better knowledge to our the whole the whole system of the world how things are and it gives then
ourselves more hardy stone more compassion in mind more soft to the heart mind and this is what the
sufferings does if everything is so good and all that we won't have this kindness the compassion
and thoughtful really things it makes ourselves more humble simple more down to the earth it is
suffering is not always bad bad but of course when it comes to the earth then it's very difficult
challenging those are different ways to understand we kind of overcome that and then you use that
suffering to grow our our natural natural realization to deepen our qualities to grow
our beautiful quality of the fearlessness of love and kindness compared to the other beings
and it truly then it makes our self very beautiful beings in this world the shining stars that
really
we can help to ourselves help to our family friends and with that knowledge understand it so that's
how
the suffering is and how suffering we can heal the suffering you know something more positive
more beautiful more beneficial way and that is my brief talk about this evening if you have some
questions and i'm happy to discuss thank you thank you thank you
i was wondering about the comment that you made regarding when you are meditating and you ask your
mind who is suffering and there's no answer immediately i'm thinking that no matter what
there will be an answer i'm suffering this country is suffering these people are suffering
is there no answer when you practice a great deal or is that i'm just having a hard time
understanding that that is like for example particularly to heal our sufferings what it
said that when you ask that question who's suffering and every going really heavy our mind or
our self individuals are going very heavy hearted and mind and it is really making pressure to our
self that time you should think and this is the one of the techniques then you should think who is
feeling that who who is thinking that who is that thinker who is that thinker who is that
who feels feeling that every look to that to that that ask that question and look to that person
moment is to that to your mind right that moment then there is no answers that is like it's not
something that we're trying to hide and escape from the feelings but that is really the nature
of the mind if you look to generally every this object everything looks like a truly existing
but if you look at every item in every this malakusa every this system there's nothing
extent substantially existing core at all to any things therefore is what in buddhism is called
relative truths all is it relatives all is relative there's no substantial solid existence
so this is the way that universe is like like as illusion magic the disciplines similarly
suffering the difficulty all these things are magical display of the illusions illusions so
now for example i'm suffering i'm experiencing difficulties that that that and all these things
but when that happen is strong tense thought thought happening then you ask who is me who
is me who is saying that suffering where is that me saying suffer if you ask that question put that
inquiry to your mind and to your feeling there is no answers and there's nothing that you can find
that is the like the space state of the preformed suffering that state is free from suffering but
due to our dualities it really due to our grasping cling in feeling and attachment to the sensitive
it won't last long term but it is really you healing that moment that moment you heal that
all that conception or the feeling that suffering thought into the the wisdom or into the into the
great emptiness states into the states so you really the way this suffering come from actually
where that come from is also come from the the great emptiness or the great wisdom see so
so it went really back to that natural status now again due to our unfamiliar of the
meditation of a true absolute truth it won't last long time definitely that maybe next second it
will come back that and that but how even that's the one way to heal this but if you're thinking
of all the others and the sufferings are sufferings you can think that that technique you can think
but same time you really put lateral aspiration bodhicata prayers such as mantra of meditation
weak normal suffering such as in buddhist days in mahayana buddhist days called poor boneless
prayers
may all every living beings from the preformed sufferings may they ever have the or always have
the happiness may they always stay the joy and they made the what's called if i join that whole
praise that's me may all sentient beings happiness and cause of happiness may all living beings
free from sufferings cause of sufferings may they always have the supreme happiness
which is free from sufferings may they always have the great equanimity understanding great like
equally understanding all the time so really giant kind of that kind of prayers we every
sentence means free from the all the suffering the difficult sincerely thinking your bottom of your
heart we there such as the prisms of with the buddhist and bodhist or in light join that that
is you're really sending the great healing healing message healing energies to whole world even
though
it looks like so small but that i'm doing this maybe it's not an effort but according to buddhist
teaching that will have the ripple effect really it will affect to all everywhere it really will
help
that's help so this is a very special very good to do okay
yeah here's one
there is no
it's true in the buddhist teaching or i'm a coder in the true level reality level there's no i
i and then what do you say no suffering well if there's no i then then there can be no suffering
there's no sufferings yeah that's true then there's no sufferings that's true there's
therefore have you ever read hard sutra there's a sutra called hard sutras there's more i there's
no all this teaching said and there's no sufferings there's no suffering there's no suffering
pre-formed sufferings true so all those teachings say this so it's beyond the all the levels of the
conceptions conceptions they're true is there's an according absolute absolute level in the budd
hist
buddhist teaching say there's no i is only on the absolute level on the relative level yes there is
i
there is you there's me even buddhist chaktamuni said i am staying in the water speak mountain
or i i am in a varanasi with my students but i see it so in the relative level truly there is i
but absolutely level there is no i as most of us think as thought so on the relative level
there is suffering definitely relative level suffering that's what we have to do healing
wow substance the healing mantra healing meditation healing attitude healing all those are on the
relative level level and suffering is a relative level truly we have sufferings on the relative
levels yeah in the relative level we didn't i mean you we all know this is nothing something new
that
we have a lot of like difficulties and changes in our lives time we born as i said in time we go
in the buddhism say the time of the time when we born is also when we're taking the birth even
though we don't remember but our birth is not always pleasant it's not pleasant to the mother
it is not pleasant to the the child who's taking the birth and then when you grow up there is also
lateral difficulties self troubles and then getting old is not easy and then similarly
sickness is not easy and then leaving this body is not easy so this is those are like kind of
major uncomfortable things that we have to go through and then beside there is so many groups
of these these feelings it comes it is all definitely the relative truth relatives
okay yes thank you yeah
it's funny just last night i was thinking about you leaving to that and
what i would consider incredible suffering that you went through
and it's really hard to get mine around
i mean there's such a strong compulsion to want fewer things to go bad in my life
want less hardship and then you know then i think of you and it's like oh you know it's nothing
compared to that but still um
i'm not sure exactly what my question is but it's like there's um
there's a desire to accept what is
but there's also a desire to have what is being nice
i don't know is it just just a it's like you know you're obviously it makes sense to try and
make things sort of nice
but it's like
i get so tired of hardship
and definitely the suffering in the heart here is difficult really difficult but however
i think as i said said it's not just i'm saying this but it's true we all have to go through
this is not something that one is exceptional that even the enlightened beings an external level
of how they're feeling side of course is not really as we are what we feel is suffering
their feelings are different but external level they went through larger hardships and difficulties
and then we are going that and it took and within ourselves each purpose that's what in the buddh
ism
called karma or buddha teaching say the karma but individually we all have the different varieties
of
the challenge and the difficult each each of us has these things and also we have very similar
kind of challenges that we all share together these things so so that they grew the level kind
of similar but individually again quite different these all go through this but was whatever it is
is i think that the mostly important that is the all the experience those great teachings say that
we have to really be very courageous and strong and accepting their situation and accept this
situation is really mean that we just live like that but with that acceptance we're trying to
solve the problem we're trying to heal the two problems that that if we do this and we use those
as kind of like reminders or the as like or make ourselves stronger and the courageous ones
to really help to the others others and they're kind of know that by our difficulties and the
troubles and the sufferings know that how others are going through that every seed is and kind of
their more more compassion and more kind more prey but trying to support and help with that
those all activity will also really will heal to our difficulty troubles too so that is really
what that you can heal yourself you're trying to heal others and support and help with that
that and then also same time as you said when you thinking of the poversa like kind of for me like
when we left it to be the all the more refuge and all these things in a frightening situation they
really go through this and it's not just that they don't have the troubles at all but they have the
all the troubles what we have now but beside they have troubles then losing their lives they're
losing their families immediately so they're escaping from the really dangerous place how
they're frightened and plus maybe they don't have the food they have don't have the cloth
wearing that so they have more extra troubles and difficulties also really that and seeing those
things that they can more compassion more kind they do lot of praise or whatever we can help
support in the accord our capabilities those are really known as then virtuous activity
and the dharma activity positive activity it heals to our self karma and the difficulty
it then benefiting to the others so those which is wonderful really wonderful and the same time
when we see those difficult troubles in other part of the world all this and when you look to us
then we also should have a lot of reason to feel happy and joy how great for how beautiful how
nice and it's like just a being great for great eat you too and you know all those things really
is important this is many times that's what the sufferings are reminding of our our joy
and our appreciation our great eat you to see that so so all those reasons the sufferings are not
like bad as what many times we think that is it has beautiful another qualities that really
brings the good things yeah i think there's an aspect of um maybe incorrectly assuming that it
means i'm doing things wrong yeah if i'm having troubles and and and so do you think that
what i'm hearing you say maybe is the key is to stop thinking about myself and and let the
suffering
help me develop compassion yeah that's really true of course isn't it mean that you stub yourself
thinking that definitely you have to think how to solve the problem your best capabilities whatever
the way to really make that more comfortable more easiest and that that definitely we need but same
time we should really also take that examples and then trying to also as much as you can help to
the other beings according in yandere in the buddha sichin or the great master shanti deva is one
of
the teachings the thinking of our sufferings and that kind of combined that we both each other so
my suffering become the main substitute the suffering of all the sentient beings every living
but not experience any sufferings because my this difficulty troubles and we have that courage and
confidence commitment and that is really again another big way to develop your courage your
confidence fearlessness and the same time is a great bodhisattva activities there's so many stories
that buddha give his own lives to benefit to the other beings even we couldn't do that stages like
as that but at least our current situation suffering is what we're going through through that
difficulty kind of use that and may this become substitute of everyone's difficulty suffer
sufferings so that there never been any any no one is the uh suffered suffered like
what i'm i'm i'm that my suffering become the substitute of others and so is there
you know in the future or something a time when there will be suffering according buddha sichin
when you become the become buddha buddha then there's normal sufferings sufferings
that's true when you reach enlightenment when you when that means when you realize
the true nature absolute truth as it is when you realize that then even though it looks like
suffering but it's not really suffering even this is just like like use less example when you're
dreaming now when you're dreaming in the nightmare if you recognize that nightmare is a nightmare
it's it's it's dream it's not just really happening so then you won't have the pressure
of the nightmare rather it become like playful playful so that's this is it so this is all
that when we have the have the when we get a realization of the absolute truth exactly as it
is this is all display is all place shows even though there's absent wrong different things
but our mind had to understand what it is so is like playful is this like nothing really
absolute level happening before us this moment when these things happen is really true happening
happening is so solid it's so strong and so truth truth and then it's crashing crashing
reality level with a reality level whether you have the realization or not realizing
reality level is like all magic shows all magic yeah all is magic all is like display
okay yes thank you
thank you thank you I have a question
that has to do with people who have spent much time and years in war zones
people who have spent years in a war zone and then come back and practice and meditation
purification by Drosophila and attitude correct attitude and do quite well Tomlin and also the
that may my suffering be the of all beings who are suffering the same at this very moment
but yet and can keep pretty present present state except for when something happens in
the environment which immediately transforms the body back to that state of the war zone
whereas the body is just gone with the reaction of a prior experience in the past
even to the point where your mind you can know that that's what's happening you're having a
flashback and you can go to mantra or various Tomlin practices or breathing even just trying
to bring yourself back but the body has responded so strongly that it's very hard to do that do you
have any recommendations or it almost seems like at that point the body is separate from the mind
I think so really I would say still even though that happening I will say still
trying to keep up the attitude and as well as mantra meditation and all the health experts
healthy experts like the instructions whatever they really the best trying to keep up that so
I think really those are the best but keep the positive mind keep the kind of like courage and
like keep the hope I think keep the hope and keep the competence and with that and then
do the all those like spiritual like meditation mantra mantra then that and then together with
the expert those doctors and stockings really be strong and then also listen with a friend
family members how they they can help their kind of kind advice anytime if they have got those
really keep up that but shouldn't lost today or like vision or the goal or the hope and keep up
that still keep up the happy and the joy that I'm I'm beautiful human beings I'm good I'm just
really
don't feel that kind of like trying to not feel kind of like very hopeless and just like lost
everything really bring up that even we're going to to the throw that tunnel in a way a tunnel that
there is a window of light ever you you keep the courage and competence and your vision and the
goal identity up up that and keep the principles and or attitude really is I think it's really
important with that day this Dharma like spiritual meditation toning the breathing all those
wonderful
mantras that definitely help but this is it's just one of the obstacles obstacles we go through
this
even the great practitioners went through so many obstacles even we read the life stories
like I mean all those great masters and in the ancient time now too I mean there's so many great
practitioners so masters when we read life story they had lot of also very kind of good days and
sometimes a very difficult hard days but their goal then they lost their hope or the vision
their identity their principle then they lost it and that really brought up that then that
become that so I will say the same way apply that techniques and just keep up that really that and
bring more trying to bring more joy more appreciation not looking always the weak side of the our
our
things what happened in the life we kind of not thinking but even though we can make the mistakes
we can happen these things happen we give excuse we forgive we accept it and keep the vision and
the goal I think really can change that we can turn that back yeah the forgiveness and the
acceptance is a big part and I know the neuroscience are saying well that mantra is one of the best
things that can be done my question is even with the acceptance and the forgiveness and the
practice
that it seems like the body sort of separates from the mind at that point yeah that could be
sometimes that could happen in that but definitely we keep the vision and we give the call
keep the goal vision and identity and still the kind of like keep the looking upward really not
just stone looking upward kind of held what's called head held high head held high and big stone
and keep drawing the things that what you need to be good or good to do what as doctor says really
that I think really we can change change that and that but however we should also all these
past things whatever happening things we have to accept that we have to accept in gender level
individual level and very personal level we have to accept and we have to accept and the same time
let it go let it go don't there's many times those things are not holding back past our memories
past this and that thing as we hold back that then it just become the past we chasing still
the past now is that maybe happened many years ago many months ago i mean long time ago it happened
and still is bring back that it that that kind of shadows our destination our direction i think
really that so let it go give the forgiveness and excuse and let it go and then do the
purification practice of the various southwest and that i mean it's wonderful all that i think
really can change that that and just whatever that is also we're not so kind of like hesitate
status and just whatever the situation comes i'm happy and there's this one great master known as
in the tibet tommy's uncle he joined in his prayer or his song said one he got sick sick that he
said
if i'm sick i'm happy i'm cleansing terrifying my karma's if i'm not saying i'm happy i can do a
lot
of good things to benefit to the others so whatever it is is good for me that's what really he said
in
the teaching that and then there's a great master uh lung kimba he's the one of the again great
masters he said similar things if i'm dying i'm happy happy happy that is the journey of the dharma
kaya or journey to the dharma kaya if i'm alive i'm happy i can do that will continue to do good
things good activities is like narmakya status narmakya can perform lot of beneficial activity
so whatever the situation comes i'm happy and whoever making me trouble i'm very thankful
because they're the one who really push me to this status i'm now what i that's what i got this
result
that statement so i'm thankful for all those obstacles and those uh man whom are troubled to
me i'm thankful to that and also he said this is truly really i mean when we think this really
what the achievement of what the result or what this great master god truly that's what because
that situation really bought all that things so then it becomes such an open mind and
freedom mind they're not caught in the hop in a pair like this just open
what you just said brought me back to the songs of campo salter
oh that's wonderful thank you okay
thank you for your teaching and your presence
sometimes when i meditate i get to a wonderful peaceful state with emptiness
and i don't know why it's up here but up here it's like my ego but some people are called
anybody kind of looks down on me to fold their arms and says all right now just take a few more
minutes of bliss a few more moments take a few more moments but then come back i know i know i'm
grouchy and i've got a lot of reason pain and anger and you're much happier there but
you know people won't recognize you unless you're out here being abandoned people won't recognize
you and then i go that's okay they don't have to recognize me it's much nicer here and then
the ego up here says you know he worked so many hours and so many years to get to this emptiness
and there's not going to be anybody to enjoy it
so if i just keep my back there and practice and try to ignore the voice would you have any words
that the empty me can say to the ego so the ego and the empty have a big debate i think
i think big debate and i think so you have to say i'm not going to listen to your ego
i'm not going to listen your ego i think maybe that's it i think this is
i'm very happy that you made it any and i'm very those really good but however this is just a
little again testing or the hindrance that happening to you and that is what is really
the important not pay attention not pay attention at all it is fundamentally speaking it is display
or your mind display of your mind mind there's nothing is is all mind is playing that game
game and so therefore not pay attention and then is somebody also little bit is kind of like
handiness as i said that also happened for example buddha shakya money too
if you read life story buddha is going to get enlightenment that night for example you sit on
the another body today and a full full moon night and then meditating and then what there's like
according the teaching said the mara came that why you stay here underneath the body this tree
what are you going to gain what are you going to gain in in the back to home your kingdom is
completely controlling and controlled by or the ruling by the devadathas and many others others
so why you stay here what do you will gain here go back to home home and nobody will
appreciate you anything those really in the teaching said those all came that in either way
the obstacles so similar things these things are happening for example you or many also
practitioners
can experience these things but when that happened our confidence and courage are not really
lost anything and keep strong and when that happening generally why this happening many
times in the teaching say it is because happening that your practice is going quite good
when your practice is quite good you have those experience and our practice is not going at all
anyway we won't have any those experience so that is truly the sign of your practice is let it
developing and it's don't make getting let it stronger that's what this experience happening
is a lot don't let fell down or fall down on those obstacles or those like hindrance
really keep strong keep strong and be meditating in continuity and don't ask those questions
don't listen the answers any of those you trying to stay present state feel strong presence such
as the buddha shakya money money all all those in life to both the south of the city their
blessings
strongly and then just not even those feelings allow that merge to the your emptiness states
and the free from the ego state and the relaxed and that really i think is the best it will
that's what in the teaching said that's what we do thank you thank you okay
okay anyone yeah thank you i wanted to ask you about the the dreamlike nature of experience
you said really like the magical display so um the uh the playwright william shakespeare
in one of his places said the world where we live here is really just a stage and all of this is
just actors going back and forth it's a display it's like a story so um i wanted to if you'd say
something about the self because uh there appears to be all these selves we relate we have friendly
relationships but you were saying to look inside to see if that's self the way the story we have
that really is true so that the story we have of self myself if i look at that it's all bits
and pieces there's no there's no solid thing there stories and stuff but in in the tantra
with the empowerment to a dt then you have introduction you can be a different actor
it's like this actor this this mask and this costume this body that can be like a divine being
and play with other beings and do little things to make them happy and see them as enlightened
beings and when i do that for a while there's the regular self i forget it's a much nicer act it's
much more fun to do so are you saying so this examining this hard self if we look at it and
let go or be more playful see more as magical display that immediately leads the suffering
so that's definitely yeah yeah yeah that's definitely when you have when you when you
bring that realization or when you bring understand of the you become the divine
or boring according to vagina and stochine and then whole universe is transformed or in that state
as a divine state it's not just myself is in that status that whole everything is in in that divine
status so so that when we have that realization when we keep that mental state of meditation
then definitely it changed or there's nothing any uncomfortable or anything it's all is like
playful natural status really truly that is like definitely big transformation that is immediately
transforming suffering into the into the great divine mandala or the samsara is immediately
transforming in the divine or the buddha mandalas mandalas and that is also according by jana tiki
is not just we play games that we are kind of like trying to be pretending that in the reality of
according by jana tiki truly we are in that status this is is like delusion of ours it's not really
really this is what we are now is not really according by jana tiki that divine mandala
is the real but why we are not seeing because our dual cataract cataracts of the duality
blood blood and then we are not seeing that it's blood blood or we diluted our self then we don't
see but reality level our nature of the mind or nature is so pure so pure is just a buddha status
and therefore our senses are also in a buddha sense status therefore all the object of the senses
are
also in that divine sense status so therefore what we what we call the realizing that what we
realize
and not we trying to pretend in something but we are really going back to the ordinary state
exactly what we are and not letting obstructed by the dualities so that's that's and when we
did that and when you have that real thing then everything is in the divine everything is that
ordinary enlightened state so therefore i mean according that most of you know that buddha is
buddha who the enlightenment is not just you're trying to gain something that which you're not
now you're coming back to the ordinary state what you are ah so for that reason that buddha
enlightenment is natural it is true it is natural it is not artificial and you just
recline back your status okay thank you everyone thank you very much everyone thank you thank you
thank you everyone thank you thank okay we do again one minute meditation and then again i'm
going to join through prayer dedicating that again may all those what i said before may all living
means the happiness cause of happiness may they free from the sufferings and cause of sufferings
may they remain have the ultimate state of the happiness of joy and free from the sufferings
and then may they have everlasting realization of the great equanimity so those that i'm going to
to pray so and so please join your entrancy with my prayers first we do just one minute silence
um
okay thank you everyone again thank you very much everyone
thank you thank you so much thank you thank you have a good evening thank you very much everyone
so